hello I'm Samantha Eric and welcome to
the first edition of gold cup today MLS
soccer coms daily show on the 2013 Gold
Cup tune in every day to find out all
the news analysis highlights everything
you would possibly want to know to
follow the tournament well even have our
very own editors traveling with the US
Men's National Team throughout the
tournament to give you the most complete
coverage possible of the team well the
gold cup kicked off last night with
group a match ups first up was Martin
eat with their shocking win in stoppage
time over Canada followed by the group's
favorites Mexico being beaten by Panama
so let's take a look at the highlights
from the games last night and then check
in with our experts Jason saghini and
Simon Borg to hear about the opening
night of the tournament the tournament
got underway in Pasadena with Canada
taking on Martinique in the first game
and it was Martinique with one of their
better chances early forcing this save
from me lon bori on and that's the
number 17 Kevin parse man the captain of
Martinique who was a handful all game to
deal with for Canada popping up in
different places and making place very
crafty here he is with another shot on
goal forcing another big save from bori
on who was put to work to keep Canada in
this Simon Canada was supposed to be the
favorite here here's a Marcus Haber
chance in the second half not enough
Canada was definitely hurt in this game
by will Johnson leaving just after
halftime with a stomach illness and when
you thought it would finish no nail this
left-footed strike from Fabrice
root-pattern a upper 90 in second-half
stoppage time a dream strike for a dream
start for Martinique and they're going
to be celebrating like they've just won
the World Cup so Simon is this more
martinique being better than we thought
they were or is it Canada being worse
than we thought they were Jason I'd have
to go with Martinique surprising
everyone here I think we have another
Guadalupe situation on our hands
Guadalupe a team that came into the Gold
Cup a couple editions back shocked
everyone made it to the semis second
time around didn't surprise many but I
think Martinique showed that they have
players who can make things happen with
the ball at their feet and athletically
they're very capable in those kind of
settings with
that kind of heat they're at their ease
when we previewed this group sign and we
thought this was the game that Canada
was going to win and they might even
steal a point from Panama but at this
point with zero points after the game
they were supposed to win are they out
of this tournament Jason I'd have to
believe they are because their
best-case-scenario beat martinique point
against Panama then get what you get
against Mexico not having accomplished
it against Martinique means they'd have
to have the absolute perfect game
against Panama Panama I think are going
to be tougher than I thought they were
based on the last world cup qualifiers
they had a great game against Mexico all
right speaking of that game against
mexico mexico and panama in the nightcap
and it didn't take long for things to
get interesting as panama earns an early
PK and Quintero was causing havoc down
the left side the entire game but what's
what I will he meant as a full were
doing trying to go for the ball in the
box that's a sub gobby tortoise Oh as
the perfect start to this game Mexico
and disarray Panama flying panama goes
up one nothing later and they have
panama with another chance to extend the
lead it Cecilia Waterman off the post
and Jason Mexico and absolute disarray
in this first half players really didn't
know what they were doing on the field
but nonetheless just before half-time
Israel he met his finding my crop of
young in the box and that's the kind of
finish those are the kind of skills
people expect that a Marco Fabian who
was the most inspired of his group on
the game Mexico goes into halftime 1-1
but just after halftime it's cantero
again serving it in and it's Torres
again Gabby Torres with a second goal of
the game Panama leads two to one and
this is what the opponents of Panama
have to look forward to in Group A godby
Torres with two goals and imagine him
partnering up with blah spares in the
upcoming games and here's a final late
chance for Mexico denied by Pineda and
Jason that's one Valenzuela with the
header but ultimately too little too
late Mexico has to go back to the
drawing board and figure out how they
can be more dangerous well Simon we've
been saying things need to get better
for Mexico now for a while chapo
dilatory the head coach for Mexico is he
gonna make it through this tournament
well Jason this is the hottest his seat
has ever been in my opinion they had two
losses in the tune-up games leading into
the Gold Cup then this will
off and they looked in disarray Jason he
picks the squad he sets up the tactics
unless they completely turn it around
and it would be an a miraculous
turnaround uh they'll get out of the
group but in the knockout rounds if
they're humiliate at any point during
the during the way I think yes there's a
chance they could get rid of him I
remember we'll go Sanchez they got rid
of him after the Mexican team didn't
make it to the Olympics in olympic
qualifying so absolutely that's a
scenario well we said this Panama team
was potentially a contender coming into
this tournament a huge win in game one
Simon are they competing with the US and
Mexico for the championship now I think
especially if Mexico is on a downward
slide in this tournament they can maybe
have some hope but i don't think that
other teams are going to take alberto
quintero lightly or gabby told us for
that matter I don't think cantera will
do the damage he did against Mexico to
other teams so I think they'll get out
of the group they might finish first but
I don't know necessarily they were
contender for the title remember this
team beat Mexico and now they're adding
blahs Perez possibly their best player
into the mix let's toss it back to Sam
thanks guys well group b enters the
tournament tonight at red bull arena
with el salvador taking on trinidad and
tobago followed by haiti taking on the
group favorite ton doors let's go back
to Jason and Simon to hear what we
should be watching for into nice games
Simon for more teams entering the
tournament tonight what are your
expectations out there well Jason El
Salvador and Trinidad I don't expect to
go deep in the tournament but I'm very
curious about Honduras especially of
Mexico's having a down tournament they
could be the ones that challenge the US
for the tournament title and it all
depends on whether they're roro
combination there are two forwards
Ronnie Martinez and Roger Rojas if they
can be dangerous honduras they play well
and they have good players all around
the field but they've struggled scoring
goals at key moments I think Roger Rojas
is a good commodity and then Ronnie
Martinez both of them 12 are the top
leading scorers in the honda league well
Simon we've talked a lot about this
haiti team in the preview team with some
MLS influence Peterson Joseph enemy
Shack Jerome from Sporting Kansas City
will probably be starters on this team
can haydee be the next team to pull off
an upset after we saw two upset
on day one you can catch both those
games tonight on fox soccer the first
starts at seven p.m. eastern time and
the second game kicks off at nine thirty
let's do a quick check in with the US
Men's National Team who are coming off a
huge 60 win over Guatemala on Friday
night team is looking confident and
strong and there's no better way for
this team to be entering the Gold Cup
tournament and a win like that we saw
Landon Donovan who seems to be returning
to form putting in two bowls for the
team and another MLS sir chris
wondolowski scoring his first national
team goal and after an injury for josh
gatt we saw former FC Dallas star Brek
Shea added to the roster the US will
face believes on Wednesday July ninth
you can catch that on fox soccer at 11pm
and in the meantime be sure to check out
the full group C preview on
mlssoccer.com well that's all we have
for gold cup today but we'll be back
tomorrow with a full recap of tonight's
games and much more on the US men's
national team as they begin their quest
for the Gold Cup